# Using-Genetic-Algorithm-to-Optimize-Social-Behaviors-in-the-Pattern-of-Life-Simulation
This is my Undergraduate Computer Science Honor Program, under the guidance of Dr. Andreas Züfle and Dr. Joon-Seok Kim.

Due to copyright and privacy considerations, only my dissertation paper has been uploaded for now, and the code portion is not yet available. Please feel free to contact me if you are interested.

Abstract:
Social networks play a crucial role in individual well-being and social dynamics. This thesis explores the feasibility of using an evolutionary algorithm to study the optimal human attributes for maintaining strong social networks, through an agent- based simulation framework called Patterns-of-Life simulation (POL). We implemented a custom Genetic Algorithm within POL that allows agents to reproduce or exit the simulation based on the strength of their social connections. Six key attributes—age, education level, financial status, interest, joviality, and food need—were analyzed. We ran two sets of experiments: one with only survival pressure caused by social networks, and the other with an additional financial pressure introduced through rising housing prices. Our results show that agents with high education level and financial status are more likely to maintain a strong social network and financial sustainability. Agents with moderate food needs and balanced joviality also had better outcomes. The simulation framework also functions as an evolutionary toolbox to study how populations respond to external changes and selection pressure over time. This demonstrates the utility of evolutionary agent-based modeling in studying complex social systems like social networks.
